# Variant Model

Variants are Craft Elements and also purchasables.

VariantModel objects have the following attributes and methods:

## Attributes

### title

The variants title as generated by the title formatter on the product type definition.

### id

The ID of the variant in the system.

### purchasableId

Returns this variant’s ID - as variants are purchasables.

### product

Returns this variant’s [Product model](product-model.md)

### price

The listing price of the variant.

### salePrice

The price of the variant after sales have been applied. Will be equal to price if no sales were applicable.

### sku

The SKU of the variant.

### isDefault

Returns `true` or `false` if this variant is the default variant of a product.

### hasStock

Returns `true` or `false` if the variant has unlimited stock or a stock count greater than zero.

### hasUnlimitedStock

Returns `true` or `false` if this variant has unlimited stock

### stock

Returns the stock count on hand, or zero if unlimitedStock is true.

### maxQty

The maximum quantity that can be ordered at once for this variant (in a single cart/order)

### minQty

The minimum quantity that can be ordered at once for this variant (in a single cart/order)

### weight

The variants weight

### height

The variants height

### length

The variants length

### width

The variants width

### cpEditUrl

The URL to edit this variant’s edit page in the Control Panel.

### sortOrder

Returns the order number of the variant as defined on the Edit Product page.

### onSale

Returns `true` or `false` when any sales are applied to this variant. This is just a helper to test if there is a `saleAmount` not equal to zero.

### salesApplied

Returns an array of sales that have been applied, allowing you to access the description of the sale with `{{ variant.salesApplied[0].description }}`

### description

The description of the purchasable which is the result of the product type’s “Order Description Format” option.

